I'm now recording okay hello everyone
welcome to the IPS All Hands meeting
Suites little using Google Hangouts I'm
super sorry Google Hangouts to work for
me today there's actually a lot of
difficulty in that process we've been
switching accounts and making it work
and sometimes doesn't work they was one
of those days we're going to have a
wider discussion before we switch to
zoom if we switch to zoom so don't feel
like this is gonna be time to change
just a this seems to work if you want to
join in I'm sorry
because you can't be straining this room
so I might about that today we're gonna
start a different type of call normally
our All Hands meeting our us going
around and being like working on was
blocking you what can you get help on
we're gonna do something different I
don't know much about it so I'm gonna
switch it over to Matt who is going to
be the moderator today for everyone on
this call is super important that you
check out the either pad which has the
agenda we're gonna be all into gender
restricted today and try to keep it
tight so you can find the either pad
it's I'll link it right now in the IRC
and on that note Matt take it away
should we start with a roll call if you
think so all right well yeah let's start
with the roll call and then I'll I'll
give an explanation of the structure I
am proposing which will be it I think
will be workable until we come up with
something better so roll call by you do
it oh you were what was how have you
guys done roll calls but I used to do it
alphabetically because hang out shows
them that way
now that we're in zoom I don't know how
to do this properly cliff we all have
the same does everyone see emilina top
left corner okay so now we're gonna have
to do it differently so is this also
necessary if we're all on a video call
and we can see each other I would say no
welcome to Gotham
so maybe Richard could you do as a
note-taker write down the names of who's
okay and then I will proceed with
usually the first thing we would do
after roll call is to ask for more
agenda items but before we do that I'm
going to describe the call format
that I'm proposing so the idea for this
All Hands call is to be a brief chicken
that has everyone on the call and it's
the opportunity for you to call out
things that are cross-cutting topics or
hey there's this important thing that
needs discussion who wants to
participate in that discussion
so like top-level brief discussions and
that are then delegating the lengthier
discussions or the detailed discussions
of tickets to project specific sprint
calls I and then so we'll try to keep
this call short of course the first
couple times we do it it might be a
little bit longer because part of the
discussion will be figuring out the
process um but the main point there is
that it gets everyone in and get a sense
of what everyone is doing without having
to be listening in on all of the details
of all of the projects so I want to
allow a little bit of time for
discussing that and then a little bit of
time for discussing the temporary format
we can use for those project specific
spring calls while we figure out a more
stable formal sense of how we want to
run those individual project sprints and
management so any discussion any
questions about this format ideas
misgivings thoughts I see a bunch of
thumbs up okay all right
all right so then the format is simple
you can propose any agenda item we will
try to keep the discussion of any agenda
item down to like maybe five minutes per
agenda item and I the moderator is
something we should rotate this isn't a
particularly like elaborate task of
moderating it's just mainly time
teaching and the main thing the
moderator does is try to keep the
discussion on track and ask questions
like seems like this is this is gonna
take more discussion do you want to move
this to a spring called doesn't need its
own in spring call things like that so
it's mainly about keeping things rolling
keeping it smooth given that any other
questions before we dive into the
that we have okay all right so the first
thing to start with so we've been
proposing agenda items on github by
attaching them to this ticket for this
fall so we have a bunch of agenda items
on here already
does anyone have additional agenda items
that are not listed here in the etherpad
one I'd like to propose just a short
thing when I'll ask people for or some
information I'm preparing a big update
for everyone in the whole community
I'd love to like mention some things
that I'm not gonna ask people to send me
to request for information about what I
just it'll be mostly like over the last
few months I'm going to send like a cue
to update to the whole community
and I'll just ask for some info okay and
any other agenda items oh just have one
engine item slash gushing which is I'm
not sure if we are still doing the
check-ins through github issues I mean
through the same data be sure so if I
can be in one of the items just confirm
if we are still supposed to write down
what we achieved in the week before and
and if so I would like to propose
something related with that so yes we
can do it yeah well let's give that its
own agenda item and we'll do it as the
first item after next server then the
next item is like how oh do we OH
alright so you got that sorry Richard
already ticked it so any other agenda
items all right right I see nobody is in
your hand all right so then the the
first thing is like how are we keeping
these notes as everyone probably sees
we've been using the the weekly sprint
issue as the place where people can
propose agenda items so there's already
a little bit of a history there in
previous previous polls we have pasted
right shouldn't say we it looks like you
have been pasting the nice thing the
noticing the notes from the notes from
you meant on that one consolidated issue
which means that you can go to that
issue and see all of the notes there all
the calls that happens on that week that
was really useful for me as someone
joining on I think we should keep
between that is that what you were
talking about me you were asking whether
we should keep doing that yeah so I was
asking if we should keep doing that and
I think also I agree I really like to
have that information like it takes
maybe I could find minutes for of each
one to write it down and really helps
others know what's going on and also on
that I would like to propose because we
have been always saying what we have
managed to accomplish and we typically
at scale like the things that we didn't
to accomplish all the things that we
didn't plan to do that week but somehow
we said to someone that we were going to
do but then we didn't do we never like
write those down and I think like if we
keep doing those check-ins to be very
important weather section to our
check-in saying hey I didn't manage to
do this which can be a thing that you
had planned before or it can be I think
it was added during the week but at
least like what the team know the
community know that you are not able to
because it might be because you're
blocked because indeed enough time
because you have time was questioned by
some other thing and like then we can
actively proactively fix that like we
can keep that person more time we can
like bring more resources bring more
people to help with those tasks and if
we don't write those down like then
weeks fast and then we don't we we don't
have a way to look back and understand
which items were dropped on the way I
think this depends a lot on how we end
up doing the project management stuff I
also would love to have a listing of one
side yeah one central place where you
can look at and see all the things that
people have been up to and you know what
was achieved and also certainly what was
dropped so that we can make sure it gets
handle the next week particular for very
pressing things what I do think this is
going to depend a bit on whether we end
up going for like more of a Kanban thing
or a more of
saying which one I'm not a head of
censure wouldn't like the conversation
has evolved the very least we can
certainly write summaries for sure in
terms of allocations
I would love to also get a sense of how
people are doing in general with the
last ones for a whole quarter because
detecting slipping there is super
important and I think these Monday
moments are like a really good check up
time weekly to see how we're doing on
the yeah on that note I was just writing
an update 15 minutes ago
and I was thinking that these updates
where is the individual issues like this
has happened is actually feels to me
like waste of time if we actually have
these nice waffle voyage for example
given that we have some way of taking
something like backups or screenshots in
time of these boards because it's super
important and interesting to look at the
development of the board over time so
that I can go back to the last week and
look at the board when it outlook them
for example increa to the board those
now given all my issues would be tracked
through that word I would need to go
around and write all these issue these
things down and notes and rather once a
week when the sprint half this sink
happens take screenshots whatever some
way all putting down the current state
of the Bob wood or multiple boards and
then we have that as an overview yeah we
can probably discuss all the actual
mechanics I would want to do like
weather screenshots or right or whatever
on github and so on I think mostly we
should agree on the model of what we
want whether we want updates what should
be on them like what kind of information
should be on them
so I'm I'm unsure of whether are you
proposing that this stuff should be
discussed on the All Hands call or are
you asking about whether this stuff gets
covered at all on that some breakout
call oh I'm just thinking it should be
covered at some point I don't
necessarily think needs to be covered
now and I think I just wanted I could
everyone pretty much just wants to move
with something so I'm probably the
people that are most interested in
figuring out what this looks like we'll
be have that discussion
Kenda's part of the project management
breakout yeah I think it has to be like
getting into the details just a question
so people are commenting in the zoom
chat should that discussion be happening
in IRC instead of in the zoom column all
of those things are meta conversations
so quite something exciting right now
but any topic related to wherever
actually talking about it should
definitely be on IRC okay all right so
did that cover w did that cover your
question sufficiently for now I think
this whole thing about process and how
these calls are going to be structured
and what we're going to revisit is
something that actually the next agenda
item is like all we're figuring that out
right now a part of this PM process
discussion and in the meantime things
are gonna be a little bit loose and and
we're gonna do our best to like not
waste a lot of time and be as efficient
as we can but also like not wasting time
learning some process that we're gonna
throw away in a couple weeks and Richard
David your comments about having a way
to mark things that like we didn't get
to add the get-ups prints should
actually be its own issue on github so
can I have that an actual item for you
to open sound good that's good yeah that
makes it alright so so then the next
item the the PM process discussions HOD
I put myself on is
the discussion just because I didn't
want to offer you if you want to do a
little updates last second about what
we're doing there sure so basically
after after all the discussions and
listen the the goal is to put together a
process for managing our projects in the
ipfs community and and I'd like to
probably IDF s organization there's a
lot of different parties there in a lot
of different stakeholders with their own
agendas um so what we're trying to find
is a a general enough process that the
projects in the caf's community can opt
into if they want to that's something to
to underline here nobody's required to
to opt into the IFS project management
format if they don't want to but I think
at this point there's quite a few
protocol lapse projects that we would
like to use this approach so we have a
good way of starting testing different
ways of doing that and then as time goes
by and other projects get bigger we can
have something for them as a guideline
to basically implement a project
management project process and so what
has been done so far is a lot of
discussion regarding what it is and how
we do it and it was pointed out that we
should first figure out the model so
kind of the abstract theory around it
and I think one put it in a nice way the
goal there is to figure out the
description for the process so that you
can implement it with post-it notes if
needed so that's the first step there's
a there's a discussion and a document as
a pull request we'll continue working on
that document based on your feedback
thank you Matt and one and dummy Dan
Ellis gave some feedback on that and I
think after one more iteration we can
have the model kind of as a baseline and
then we can continue you know iterating
on it discussing well is this good or is
this not good and so on and then we can
go to the discussion of the mechanics um
so I've been trying to defer the
mechanics discussion since last week is
it's rightfully pointed out in the issue
that you know we should concentrate on
the abstract stuff first but I think one
of the key points that I discussed with
Jeremy was that at the end of the day we
would like to have something where the
tooling basically automates the whole
process so what's described right now is
kind of a big structure from roadmaps to
individual milestones to individual
goals to individual tasks and and box
and so on and each one of them kind of
gathers the projects on a different
level together and ideally something
that does all of that for you by a you
know CIA hook to a repository or a
button somewhere where you can just for
press and say generate all of this
that's kind of where I think the tooling
would be nice head to so that's kind of
where we are um any questions comments
one yeah that also has also recommended
first question on because I think a
little bit of this iteration certainly
other mechanics will take a bit of time
it probably is one of the most important
things to spend time on I think right
now so kind of like a requester everyone
who cares about this we were like you
know educate some time to it like up
front this week hopefully can like land
this as soon as we can and then just in
the contingency of like I don't know how
long that my cake whether that's planned
for like this week or planned for next
week or something when they want to like
just figure out what we for now and I
like
you know do we still write how people
write their updates and decide what
they're pitching what they're gonna do
and I tell people what they're gonna do
or like what should people do this week
is there a question in the highlights
yeah but if we had like something - I do
like if you just do what we did for now
until we have the new posters figured
out or like this is what we do until we
figure things out
ideally that's tribute as simple as
possible the moment I'm chatting over
the intermediary solution as much as
possible so I think like that would be
great if what we were doing now was
coherent
and it hasn't been the last months of
stuff so I propose instead of doing what
we do now that we actually go back to a
previous manner of just writing down
things in the sprint issue just having
for this week because we all know how to
do that well it might take some time but
we know how to do that we know how it
works and we just make I want to make
that like very clear but that's what we
should be doing anyway so okay yeah I
suggest we write that down somewhere
like posted do everyone on this call
right there - duze in this print call
got it yes yes even in the notes Richard
yeah I'm writing the notes slash minutes
in either fat if you guys see them just
a clarification just because not
necessarily everyone has followed the
discussion on that p.m. saying could one
or simile clarify what you mean by model
versus mechanics ah yeah and yeah sorry
yeah you jumped into like a bike show
that has been going on for a while so
this is the thought here is we're
revamping how we do the project
management across all the dozens of
repos that we have and you know tons of
contributors and so on to find like a
good way that everyone can work together
and so people end up wanting different
kinds of tools like whether to represent
things issues or github milestones or
labels for you know all and we we think
of those or the point there was to think
of those as mechanics of like the actual
ways in which we implement some process
and to instead at the beginning just get
the process right like just like the
ideas like the abstract concept of like
hey here's a project the project has a
road and I have any road that has you
know he's like milestones they don't
need to be didn't have mile so
necessarily but they're just like some
notion of like a batch of goals all
together and so on so a good focus on
the model is to just understand
clarity on the process itself first
independent of all the mechanics and
weekly implement to a find agreement of
that because that's way easier then and
then see we can enable some flexibility
and then they can act so that different
people on different projects can handle
things however they want or it may may
end up being very similar across the
board but there might be some tweaks
asana are fine as long as the model is
preserved so then that discussion at
this point has gone to if you look at
the poor quest of the the p.m. and
document p.m. process documents that
basically out lee that the model came
together very smoothly if it's kind of
obvious it's basically restating things
that we were already doing or things we
were already had in our minds and now
the discussion that will be happening
not on this call that people might want
to you might want to participate in or
might want to have nothing to do with is
is figuring out the mechanics how do we
make this work and that also involves a
discussion of scrum versus Kanban or
some mix of the two and all of that
definitely I and Emily and Juan and
smoothly are in that discussion anyone
especially won't be included in that
discussion and then otherwise does
anyone especially want to get regular
updates and be able to follow I would
like to get updates I haven't been
involved in discussion because I feel
like there's a lot of cooks and I didn't
want to just add another voice if at
some point it would be useful to have
another voice please thing because I
would like to be involved I'm just
waiting for you guys to have some more
stuff out before I dive in and spend
hours there Richard I really definitely
want your
and you know the document before we
consider as a draft yeah me similar but
Richards not I saw there were many
voices like okay but not wait until the
main issues are figured out so if you
like feel ready this is like more review
ready
then please ping me so on all of those I
think the good goal for this week is to
get the the model figured out by end of
the week and have it freely by whoever
wants to review that and then next week
we can start the discussion regarding
the tooling and I think we're gonna have
a lot of experimentation and different
things and see what works what doesn't
different ways of doing that and you
know I don't think we're gonna have one
true solution for everyone on right off
the bat it's gonna take a while thank
you so then I think the rest of this
discussion can happen on github anon on
IRC the way it's been happening that's
far does everyone agree with that and if
there's sort of my calls between the
people who are especially interested
that works I don't necessarily need to
plan a whole week in advance just have
one of those calls to be say definitely
you know it's always the best way but
it's it sounded to me that we are pretty
close to having the final version ready
so if we can like for example agree
because that's who and said like if you
are interested in this question please
like allocate some time during this week
to review it like maybe like Wednesday
like everyone should be notified to hey
I could review decision now so that like
next week we can actually go into
implementation and not like previewing
because you can do the review this week
if we're let's pose
cool lucky stars a like again it's just
like just like do one of these days out
this week just like being everyone so
that everyone gives its review yeah
great hey all right so then the next
agenda item proposal for a breakout call
Hema fests and ipfs files I WI wasn't
sure if this was like are you proposing
that this is gonna need a whole breakup
or call where a bunch of people call in
or is this like this just needed five
minutes of discussion that's everyone
yeah we have talked about it a couple of
times there is an issue there was
another discussion in Lisbon about like
what we really need to do in order to
like finish a lecture now we completed
the items that were agreed during that
first discussion that we need to do so
now it's really okay so now we have the
context we gave time to people to like
present their feedback should we move
forward and it can be a five-minute
discussion or if someone feels very
strongly against it can be a thirty
minutes probably will require I would
rather do this by cutting over github
okay just I'll make time for it and no
actually will be temperate it's just a
call is gonna just not end so I think
like if we commit to a discussion
through github and if we don't like as a
discussion over like twins but like of
over a couple of days that will be
actually fine and pre cool so if you
could like allocate like 50 minutes of
your time any like so yeah the
information is out there and for
everyone it's won't follow the issue is
on the other path and yeah that's it
Thank You Man
haha sorry thank you
hi all right so I it just occurred to me
that there were three things that are
proposals for discussion that might need
break it out so I rearranged the list so
we can those first and then and then we
can actually like make sure that the
next item is to talk about the schedule
like do we have we scheduled all the
calls that are happening today so just
I'm just calling out that I rearranged
that list a little bit so the next item
on that list number a proposal for
discussion pub/sub so this is also to be
again does this need are you proposing
to have a breakout discussion for it or
is this just something that needs a
little just before adapt it seems like
freedo has a technical point it was a
technical point where was my son came
the room so I just wanted to mention
about the MF s moving to github I think
that's really good but I think this
needs a time limit because it seems to
me that this is an issue that's been
discussed for very long and like okay we
want to make a decision in four weeks or
something like that all of that on
github this has been cited many times
yes it reflects a lot of fact I think
one critical point either way on this
fall I think it'll go a lot faster if
when we have questions we write them on
IRC and we can just make sure to check
them and the facilitator and read them
to just make sure that's like a you know
it came for time that works well for
normal questions it doesn't work for not
everyone so I'm a note taker
I'm taking notes I can't look at our CEO
notes at the same time yeah so when I'm
facilitating I have trouble I basically
pay attention of whoever's talking
invited mr. since we have video I watch
the green spaces but I am not paying
attention IRC right now just raising
hands should be fine I think as a way of
saying you have a question if it's
relevant since we've broken up the
discussion I really have to do make this
technical point so technical point
actual technical point I have four
minutes left in this call
because I hadn't paid for zoom I'm gonna
leave the meeting and I'll issue a news
in the count
I think it's switched because they could
message that Emil any missing help no
not the host okay so let's just let it
go out if I'm the host then hopefully
it'll stick around but if it doesn't
then we'll find out okay cool thank you
then we will all reconnect
okay pops up ash what's up alright so
you can see ya hope so
w does this need a we need to schedule a
call for this so do you just need a
minute
no this needs a call because there are
several people interested in discussing
this topic first of all gravan rejoin us
today to get into the pub/sub discussion
that we have been having since the IP
fest workshop and seems like many months
before and there is already a bunch of
nodes on get up and we need to figure
out what to do next what should we be
doing with our time if it's like
containing doing a research start like
doing a program well see like was the
availability to do that so it okay
alright well then do we want to do that
call today and assuming since governs
here today today hmm
we're aiming to keep this small at least
under an hour so so do you won't that
means we have a half hour to spare
before the JSI PFS call do you want to
do it then that's good okay you can also
do it during the guide through this
fault because that won't happen because
Jeremy is on a plane
alright good point so do people well it
is they're not going to be a go ipfs
call it's the sort of thing where we
should really in reality which should be
having is false because you know she
shouldn't tell him everything except
that if it all will basically be mostly
useless without Jeremy there and there's
not much talk right now without Jeremy
as I'm working simile hash
there's no Lars so so let's let's switch
go out the efest and also just work for
you Gavin
sweet if you two wanted to be sooner it
could be in that half hour despair
yeah which to which do you want do you
want to do it immediately after this
Kalahari better immediately after would
be great and catching a flight here in a
little bit but it's kind of an
inconvenience I know read Meyer and on
this so he catch me up if he has time to
I really have to work for us so let's I
close this as soon as we can and you
guys right into it
great school dude so that was so then
proposal for discussion IPL de Nicola do
you are you proposing a call today or
didn't equal or you're just note video
yeah I'm here sorry hello everyone and
yeah it would be great to have actually
we have planning a conversation there's
some people that confirming and they
would like to have this call me included
soon I don't know what soon means to you
but 7750 would be the latest if it's
possible to do today suzune mean today
and soon within today all right can we
do it in the guy if s smart that's
before seven in Central European Time
isn't become which time zone seven did
you mean I think so basically I mean
some of the people didn't confirm them
the time because Richard said it really
I think people saying that it would be
after this meeting but I didn't specify
the time yet yes
could I be